Notebook for

A New Earth

Tolle, Eckhart

Citation (Chicago Style): Tolle, Eckhart. A New Earth. Penguin, 2009. Kindle edition.

CHAPTER ONE: The Flowering of Human Consciousness

Highlight (yellow) - Page 9

to sin means to miss the mark, as an archer who misses the target, so to sin means to miss the point of human
existence. It means to live unskillfully, blindly, and thus to suffer and cause suffering. Again, the term, stripped of its
cultural baggage and misinterpretations, points to the dysfunction inherent in the human condition.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 12
Fear, greed, and the desire for power are the psychological motivating forces not only behind warfare and violence
between nations, tribes, religions, and ideologies, but also the cause of incessant conflict in personal relationships.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 13
You do not become good by trying to be good, but by finding the goodness that is already within you, and allowing that
goodness to emerge.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 13
But it can only emerge if something fundamental changes in your state of consciousness.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 18

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
They realize that how spiritual you are has nothing to do with what you believe but everything to do with your state of
consciousness.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 22

Ego is no more than this: identification with form, which primarily means thought forms.

CHAPTER TWO: Ego: The Current State of Humanity

Highlight (yellow) - Page 28
The good news is: If you can recognize illusion as illusion, it dissolves.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 28
The recognition of illusion is also its ending. Its survival depends on your mistaking it for reality.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 33
Life isnt as serious as my mind makes it out to be.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 34
The egoic mind is completely conditioned by the past.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 34

Its conditioning is twofold: It consists of content and structure.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 35

The unconscious compulsion to enhance ones identity through association with an object is built into the very structure
of the egoic mind.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 40
Being must be felt. It cant be thought.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 40

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Whenever you completely accept a loss, you go beyond ego, and who you are, the | Am which is consciousness itself,
emerges.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 41
Life will give you whatever experience is most helpful for the evolution of your consciousness. How do you know this is
the experience you

Highlight (yellow) - Page 41
need? Because this is the experience you are having at this moment.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 42
The ego isnt wrong; its just unconscious.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 45
The ego tends to equate having with Being:

Highlight (yellow) - Page 45
I

Highlight (yellow) - Page 45
have, therefore | am. And the more | have, the more | am.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 45
How do you let go of attachment to things? Dont even try.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 45
It's impossible. Attachment to things drops away by itself when you no longer seek to find yourself in them.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 45
In the meantime, just be aware of your attachment to things. Sometimes

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 45

you may not know that you are attached to something, which is to say, identified, until you lose it or there is the threat of
loss. If you then become upset, anxious, and so on, it means you are attached. If you are aware that you are identified
with a thing, the identification is no longer total. I am the awareness that is aware that there is attachment. Thats the
beginning of the transformation of consciousness.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 53
Body awareness not only anchors you in the present moment, it is a doorway out of the prison that is the ego. It also
strengthens the immune system and the body's ability to heal itself.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 56
When there is nothing to identify with anymore, who are you?

Highlight (yellow) - Page 57
You realize your true identity as consciousness itself, rather than what consciousness had identified with.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 57

Yielding means inner acceptance of what is. You are open to life. Resistance is an inner contraction, a hardening of the
shell of the ego. You are closed.

CHAPTER THREE: The Core of Ego

Highlight (yellow) - Page 60
To uphold the I- thought, it needs the opposite thought of the other.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 61
Because when | criticize or condemn another, it makes me feel bigger, superior.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 62
And what you react to in another, you strengthen in yourself.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 62
Nonreaction to the ego in others is one of the most effective ways not only of going beyond ego in yourself but also of
dissolving the collective human ego.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 63
Nonreaction is

Highlight (yellow) - Page 63
not weakness but strength. Another word for nonreaction is forgiveness. To forgive is to overlook, or rather to look
through. You look through the ego to the sanity that is in every human being as his or her essence.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 66

If you do, become aware of the grievance both on the level of thought as well as emotion, that is to say, be aware of the
thoughts that keep it alive, and feel the emotion that is the bodys response to those thoughts. Dont try to let go of the
grievance. Trying to let go, to forgive, does not work. Forgiveness happens naturally when you see that it has no purpose
other than to strengthen a false sense of self, to keep the ego in place.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 66
The past has no power to stop you from being present now. Only your grievance about the past can do that. And what is
a grievance? The baggage of old thought and emotion.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 67
There is nothing that strengthens the ego more than being right.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 67
Being right is identification with a mental position a perspective, an opinion, a judgment, a story.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 67
You need to make others wrong in order to get a stronger sense of who you are.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 68

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Ego takes everything personally.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 68
Emotion arises, defensiveness, perhaps even aggression.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 68
Only through awareness not through thinking can you differentiate between fact and opinion.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 70
All religions are equally false and equally true, depending on how you use them.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 71
In the service of the Truth, religious teachings represent signposts or maps left behind by awakened humans to assist
you in

Highlight (yellow) - Page 71
spiritual awakening, that is to say, in becoming free of identification with form.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 71
The Truth is inseparable from who you are. Yes, you are the Truth. If you look for it elsewhere, you will be deceived every
time.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 71

When you are in touch with that dimension within yourself and being in touch with it is your natural state, not some
miraculous achievement all your actions and relationships will reflect the oneness with all life that you sense deep
within. This is love.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 72
Laws, commandments, rules, and regulations are necessary for those who are cut off from who they are, the Truth within.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 73

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
By far the greater part of violence that humans have inflicted on each other is not the work of criminals or the mentally
deranged, but of normal, respectable citizens in the service of the collective ego.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 75
Whatever you fight, you strengthen, and what you resist, persists.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 76
There is a deep interrelatedness between your state of consciousness and external reality.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 78
Spiritual realization is to see clearly that what | perceive, experience, think, or feel is ultimately not who | am, that | cannot
find myself in all those things that continuously pass away.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 80
The ego always wants something from other people or situations. There is always a hidden agenda, always a sense of
not enough yet, of insufficiency and lack that needs to be filled.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 80
It uses people and situations to get what it wants,

Highlight (yellow) - Page 80
and even when it succeeds, it is never satisfied for long.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 80
Illusion will

Highlight (yellow) - Page 80
never satisfy you.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 80
Only the truth of who you are, if realized, will set you free.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 81
Once you realize and accept that all structures (forms) are unstable, even the seemingly solid material ones, peace
arises within you.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 84
A genuine relationship is one that is not dominated by the ego with its image- making and self- seeking.

CHAPTER FOUR: Role-playing: The Many Faces of the Ego

Highlight (yellow) - Page 85

An ego that wants something from another and what ego doesnt will usually play some kind of role to get its needs
met, be they material gain, a sense of power, superiority, or specialness, or some kind of gratification, be it physical or
psychological.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 86
Shyness often goes with a self- concept that is predominately negative, the belief of being inadequate.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 86
Any conceptual sense of self seeing myself as this or that is ego, whether predominately positive (| am the greatest)
or negative (I am no good).

Highlight (yellow) - Page 86
Behind every positive self- concept is the hidden fear of not being good enough. Behind every negative self- concept is
the hidden desire of being the greatest

Highlight (yellow) - Page 86
or better than others.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 86
Whenever you feel superior or inferior to anyone, thats the ego in you.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 88
Unfortunately, in most cases, not yet the true essence of that being, but that which covers up the true essence: the raw
ego divested of its roles, with its pain- body, and its thwarted wanting which

Highlight (yellow) - Page 88
now turns into anger, most likely directed at the spouse or partner for having failed to remove the underlying fear and
sense of lack that is an intrinsic part of the egoic sense of self.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 88
It has nothing to do with true love, which contains no wanting whatsoever.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 90
Defining yourself through thought is limiting yourself.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 91
When you are completely identified with a role, you confuse a pattern of behavior with who you are, and you take
yourself very seriously.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 92
And then there is the universal role of adult. When you play that role, you take yourself and life very seriously.
Spontaneity, lightheartedness, and joy are not part of that role.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 93

The more identified people are with their respective roles, the more inauthentic the relationships become.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 96

The primary cause of unhappiness is never the situation but your thoughts about it. Be aware of the thoughts you are
thinking. Separate them from the situation, which is always neutral, which always is as it is.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 96
Be aware that what you think, to a large extent, creates the emotions that you feel.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 96
Rather than being your thoughts and emotions, be the awareness behind them.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 96
Dont seek happiness. If you seek it, you won't find it, because seeking is the antithesis of happiness. Happiness is ever
elusive, but freedom from unhappiness is attainable now, by facing what is rather than making up stories about it.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 96
Unhappiness covers up your natural state of well- being and inner peace, the source of true happiness.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 98
All egoic motivations are self- enhancement and self- interest,

Highlight (yellow) - Page 99
When you make such unconscious motivations conscious, you immediately see how absurd they are.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 99
Awareness is the greatest agent for change.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 101
If you have young children, give them help, guidance, and protection to the best of your ability, but even more important,
give them space space to be.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 101
They come into this world through you, but they are not yours.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 103
In fact, doing is never enough if you neglect Being.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 104
You are the Being behind the doing.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 104
Mastery of life is not a question of control, but of finding a balance between human and Being.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 105
You may love your child, but your love will be human only, that is to say, conditional, possessive, intermittent.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 105
To love is to recognize yourself in another.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 106

It has been said God is love but that is not absolutely correct. God is the One Life in and beyond the countless forms of
life. Love implies duality: lover and beloved, subject and object: So love is the recognition of oneness in the world of
duality. This is the birth of God into the world of form.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 106
To do whatever is required of you in any situation without it becoming a role that you identify with is an essential lesson in
the art of living that each one of us is here to learn.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 107
You become most powerful in whatever you do if the action is performed for its own sake rather than as a means to
protect, enhance, or conform to your role identity.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 107
Every role is a fictitious sense of self, and through it everything becomes personalized

Highlight (yellow) - Page 108
Their influence, however, goes far beyond what they do, far beyond their function. Their mere presence simple,
natural, unassuming has a transformational effect on whoever they come into contact with.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 108
When you don't play roles, it means there is no self (ego) in what you do.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 108
You are most powerful, most effective, when you are completely yourself.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 108
But dont try to be yourself.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 108
Thats another role. Its called natural, spontaneous me. As soon as you are trying to be this or that, you are playing a
role.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 109
Give up defining yourself to yourself or to others. You won't die. You will come to life. And dont be concerned with how
others define you. When they define you, they are limiting

Highlight (yellow) - Page 109
themselves, so its their problem.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 109
Whenever you interact with people, dont be there primarily as a function or a role, but as a field of conscious Presence.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 109
In form, you are and will always be inferior to some, superior to others. In essence, you are neither inferior nor superior to
anyone. True self- esteem and true humility arise out of that realization.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 110
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 112
Cleverness pursues its own little aims. Intelligence sees the larger whole in which all things are connected.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 112

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Cleverness divides; intelligence includes.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 114
All of the above are assumptions, unexamined thoughts that are confused with reality.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 115
How to be at peace now? By making peace with the present moment.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 116
To end the misery that has afflicted the human condition for thousands of years, you have to start with yourself and take
responsibility for your inner state at any given moment.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 121
Dont seek the truth. Just cease to cherish opinions.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 122
Anybody who is one with what he or she does is building the new earth.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 122
When work is no more than a means to an end, it cannot be of high quality.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 128
So there is no such thing as my life, and | dont have a life. | am life. | and life are one.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 128
How can | lose something that | Am? It is impossible.

CHAPTER FIVE: The Pain-Body

Highlight (yellow) - Page 131
To see ones predicament clearly is a first step toward going beyond it.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 132
So emotion is the bodys reaction to your mind.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 133
An emotion, on the other hand, is the bodys response to a thought.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 136
Fear, anxiety, anger, bearing a grudge, sadness, hatred or intense dislike, jealousy, envy all disrupt the energy flow
through the body, affect the heart, the immune system, digestion, production of hormones, and so on.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 137
Ego- generated emotions are derived from the minds identification with external factors which are, of course, all unstable
and liable to change at any moment.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 160

the power of Presence. Instead of blaming the darkness, you bring in the light.

CHAPTER SIX: Breaking Free

Highlight (yellow) - Page 181
Whatever you identify with turns into ego.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 182
They realize they are the knowing, not the known.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 184
The emotion is not who you are.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 184
You cant argue with what is. Well, you can, but if you do, you suffer. Through allowing, you become what you are: vast,
spacious. You become whole.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
CHAPTER SEVEN: Finding Who You Truly Are

Highlight (yellow) - Page 187
What are the things that upset and disturb me?

Highlight (yellow) - Page 188
If peace is really what you want, then you will choose

Highlight (yellow) - Page 188
peace.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 191
The source of all abundance is not outside you. It is part of who you are.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 191
You dont need to own anything to feel abundant,

Highlight (yellow) - Page 193
Going beyond ego is stepping out of content.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 193
Knowing yourself is being yourself, and being yourself is ceasing to identify with content.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 200
He allows the form of the moment, good or bad, to be as it is and so does not become a participant in human drama.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 200
Only if

Highlight (yellow) - Page 200

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
you resist what happens are you at the mercy of what happens, and the world will determine your happiness and
unhappiness.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 201
The ego could be defined simply in this way: a dysfunctional relationship with the present moment.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 202
Fear, anxiety, expectation, regret, guilt, anger are the dysfunctions of the time- bound state of consciousness.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 203
What is my relationship with Life?

Highlight (yellow) - Page 207
The elimination of time from your consciousness is the elimination of ego. It is the only true spiritual practice.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 208
Nonresistance is the key to the greatest power in the universe.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 210
To awaken within the dream is our purpose now.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 210
You are present when what you are doing is not primarily a means to an end (money, prestige, winning)

Highlight (yellow) - Page 211
Form means limitation. We are here not only to experience limitation, but also to grow in consciousness by going beyond
limitation.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 213

People believe themselves to be dependent on what happens for their happiness, that is to say, dependent on form.
They dont realize that what happens is the most unstable thing in the universe. It changes constantly.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 214
Accept the present moment and find the perfection that is deeper than any form and untouched by time.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 214

The joy of Being, which is the only true happiness, cannot come to you through any form, possession, achievement,
person, or event through anything that happens. That joy cannot come to you ever. It emanates from the formless
dimension within you, from consciousness itself and thus is one with who you are.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 216
For everyone who exalts himself will

Highlight (yellow) - Page 216
be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 222

form is not who you are.

CHAPTER EIGHT: The Discovery of Inner Space

Highlight (yellow) - Page 225
Nonresistance, nonjudgment, and nonattachment are the three aspects of true freedom and enlightened living.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 225
Once you see and accept the transience of all things and the inevitability of change, you can enjoy the pleasures of the
world while they last without fear of loss or anxiety about the future.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 226
You can participate in the dance of creation and be active without attachment to outcome and without placing
unreasonable demands upon the world:

Highlight (yellow) - Page 226

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Fulfill me, make me happy, make me feel safe, tell me who | am.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 232
They teach us not to take anything too seriously, to approach life in a lighthearted way, and above all, they teach by
making us laugh.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 238
When you are present, you ask: How do | respond to the needs of this situation, of this moment?

Highlight (yellow) - Page 256
To be still is to be conscious without thought.

CHAPTER NINE: Your Inner Purpose

Highlight (yellow) - Page 260
Living up to an image that you have of yourself or that other people have of you is inauthentic living

Highlight (yellow) - Page 265
not your aims or your actions are primary, but the state of consciousness out of which they come.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 266
Whatever you do takes time, and yet it is always now.

CHAPTER TEN: A New Earth

Highlight (yellow) - Page 289
Stupidity is relatively harmless, but intelligent

Highlight (yellow) - Page 289
stupidity is highly dangerous.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API Teco
Highlight (yellow) - Page 294
Not what you do, but how you do what you do determines whether you are fulfilling your destiny.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 295
The modalities of awakened doing are acceptance, enjoyment, and enthusiasm.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 296
if you are not taking responsibility for your state of consciousness, you are not taking responsibility for life.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 302
there is nothing of significance that you can do by yourself.

Highlight (yellow) - Page 305
You cannot manifest what you want; you can only manifest what you already have.

Create PDF in your applications with the Pdfcrowd HTML to PDF API
